NEW YORK — Call it the biggest troll job in boxing history. Ryan Garcia,
besieged by doubts over his mental and professional preparedness, showed there
was nothing wrong with his left hook, scoring a majority decision victory over
the previously unbeaten Devin Haney on Saturday night at Barclays Center in
Brooklyn, N.Y. The scores were 114-110 and 115-109 even, with the third even at
112-112. All three judges scored the first five rounds the same, 4-1 Haney, and
scored the final three rounds for Garcia. In the end, Garcia was indeed crazy,
crazy like a fox. Garcia, who had admitted that he intentionally blew the junior
welterweight limit by over three pounds to give him a strength advantage, scored
the first three knockdowns that Haney has ever experienced as a professional.
There was nothing wrong with his left hook, which had Haney looking like he was
on the verge of being knocked out for the entirety of the second half of the
fight. Haney (31-1, 15 knockouts) retains his WBC junior welterweight title
despite the loss, given that Garcia had missed the weight. Garcia’s weight
discrepancy meant he would have to pay out a $1.5 million bet to Haney –
$500,000 per pounds – though he’s likely to make much more in future earnings as
a result of this addition to his resume’. The result was a major upset as Haney
had been a -650 favorite by the time the bell rang, according to online sports
book Draft Kings, and Garcia was a +450 underdog. Most people figured that
Garcia’s best chance was to win by knockout, which Garcia admits put pressure on
himself. “I shouldn’t have put too much pressure on myself to stop him, because
every time I hurt him, I went crazy and I couldn’t stop him,” said Garcia, who
said at the post-fight press conference that he would be campaigning at
welterweight going forward as he can’t make the 140-pound limit. “I think the
ref should’ve stopped the fight. [Haney] was really hurt. I felt bad, I even
looked at Bill to stop the fight.” No one truly knew what to expect when the
bell rang, as the fight buildup was marred by bizarre antics from Garcia (25-1,
20 KOs), who had kicked off fight week by partying at a New York City night
club, and drank something from a beer bottle as he stepped on the scale for the
ceremonial weigh-in, which he later claimed was sparkling apple juice. Sweet
Chin Music 🎶 Here are all 3 knockdowns @RyanGarcia delivered to @Realdevinhaney
to secure the win.#HaneyGarcia pic.twitter.com/18obAwynEE — DAZN Boxing
(@DAZNBoxing) April 21, 2024  The tone was set in the first minute of the fight
when Garcia of Victorville, Calif. stunned Haney with a left hook. Garcia
attempted to finish off Haney there, but Haney eventually began to find his
balance and settle in behind his jab. Haney made an adjustment in the second
round, coming in lower to get underneath Garcia’s left hook and countering back
with right hands. “He caught me early when I was sleeping on him. He caught me
by surprise, I fell asleep on the left hook. We trained for it but I got in
there and I fell asleep and he caught me with it,” admitted Haney, who had
swelling on the left side of his face but appeared lucid nonetheless. “I’m
disappointed in my performance but I showed that I’m a true champion and that I
can fight after being knocked down and hurt.” Haney landed his best punch of the
fight in the third round when a reckless Garcia was caught by a left hook
counter which seemed to frustrate Garcia more than hurt him. Haney, a native of
San Francisco, continued to press his advantage through the early rounds as
Garcia resorted to moving around while trying to find a Plan B. He would find
his Plan B in the seventh round, which was his Plan A producing results as Haney
found himself on the canvas for the first time, thanks to a hook that came off
of a Garcia jab. Haney was hurt seriously, holding for the rest of the round.
Garcia, attempting to finish him, was penalized for hitting on the break,
nullifying the extra point and giving Haney time to recover. “The guy was
holding me for dear life, and I felt the opportunity to keep swinging while my
hands were free,” said Garcia regarding the point deduction. “I should’ve
knocked him out that seventh round. They stole that from me.” Haney seemed to
settle down in the eighth and ninth, targeting Garcia’s kidneys with right hands
as Garcia turned his back to recover. Garcia put Haney down again in the tenth
round as a right hand masked a left hook which knocked Haney down, and a similar
combination put Haney down once more in the eleventh, but Garcia never could
find the final punch to end the fight. As the seconds ticked away in the
twelfth, Garcia taunted Haney, delivering one final act of trolling before the
bell rang. “I’m surprised he has so much heart and recovery. He got wobbled bad
in the first round. I thought it was over. He even hurt me with a hook. At the
end of the day, I’m going to fight him, win or lose,” said Garcia. The Garcia
win broke a three-all tie from six previous meetings in the amateurs as children
and teenagers, though both seemed open to continuing their rivalry with another
meeting in the pros. “I thought it was a close fight. I would love to do a
rematch. I gave him a shot, it’s only right that he gives me a shot back,” said
Haney. Garcia, 25, wins his second straight after suffering his lone defeat by
seventh round knockout to Gervonta Davis last year. Haney, also 25, loses for
the first time as a pro. There were few happier with Garcia’s performance than
promoter Oscar De La Hoya, saying that his star fighter would dictate the terms
for future matchups afterwards. “Ryan just shocked the world and proved once and
for all that he is the face of boxing and a pound-for-pound athlete in our
sport,” said the Golden Boy Promotions Chairman De La Hoya. “Despite all of the
talk from armchair psychologists and so-called boxing pundits, Ryan clearly had
a plan and executed it.” Ryan Songalia has written for ESPN, the New York Daily
News, Rappler and The Guardian, and is part of the Craig Newmark Graduate School
of Journalism Class of 2020. He can be reached at [email protected].  Thanks for
signing up! Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.